{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red36\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red36\green255\blue255;
\red36\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;\red202\green202\blue202;\red23\green23\blue23;\red212\green214\blue154;
\red194\green126\blue101;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c4983\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c4983\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c5144\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c83137\c83137\c83137;\cssrgb\c11765\c11765\c11765;\cssrgb\c86275\c86275\c66667;
\cssrgb\c80784\c56863\c47059;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14960\viewh20260\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Dataquest Notes\
12-31-18\
Course 1_1_8: Python Programming Beginner\
Debugging Errors\
\
1. Two main types of Errors:\
	\cf2 Syntax Errors\cf0 - ex. missing ending quotes or starting quotes, improper indentation\
	\cf2 Runtime Errors\cf0 - only occur when the code is actually running, which makes them harder to catch/prevent\
		ex. calling a function before its defined, calling a method that the object doesn\'92t contain\cf3 \
\cf0 \
- \cf2 IndentationError\cf0 - more specific type of SyntaxError\
- Note* sometimes error messages will give you the incorrect reason why there is an error (ex. it might say the mistake is typo of function name, not the def declaration itself)\
- see full list of types of errors here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#exception-hierarchy"}}{\fldrslt https://docs.python.org/3/library/exceptions.html#exception-hierarchy}}\
\
- \cf2 Type Error\cf0 - ex. when i try to concatenate a string and an integer\
- \cf2 ValueError\cf0 - ex. when type is correct but value is wrong (ex. convert string word to float)\
- note* converting string integer to integer is ok!\
	ex. \cf6 int(\'9342\'94)\cf0 \
	will return convert the string \'9342\'94 to the integer 42\
\
- \cf2 IndexError\cf0 - when we try to access an element that\'92s not in a list\'92s index. \
ex. accessing the 3rd element in a list that only has 2 items\
\
- \cf2 AttributeError\cf0 - when we try to call a method or tribute on an object that doesn\'92t contain it\
ex. \
	\cf6 >>> f = open(\'93stock_prices.csv\'94, \'93r\'94)\
	>>> f.split(\'93 \'93)\cf0 \
\
- \cf2 FileHandler\cf0 ?\
\
- \cf2 TextIOWrapper\cf0 - built in Python object that represents a File handler\
\
\
\
\
\

\f1\b Questions\

\f0\b0 1. what\'92s an attribute? (see index error, # 5 on mission)\
\
2. what is T\cf2 extIOWrapper\cf0 ? I get this in an error message sometimes\
ex.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf7 \cb8 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec7 f = \cf9 \strokec9 open\cf7 \strokec7 (\cf10 \strokec10 "crypto_prices.csv"\cf7 \strokec7 ,\cf10 \strokec10 'r'\cf7 \strokec7 )\cb1 \
\cf9 \cb8 \strokec9 print\cf7 \strokec7 (f)
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 output:\
Lins-MacBook-Air:Dataquest Max$ /usr/local/bin/python3 /Users/Lin/Projects/Dataquest/practice.py\
<_io.TextIOWrapper name='crypto_prices.csv' mode='r' encoding='UTF-8'>\
Lins-MacBook-Air:Dataquest Max$\
\
3. What does \cf2 EOL\cf0  stand for? when i get an error message \'93EOL while scanning string literal\'94\
\
4. tutorial said that there were two main of errors (Syntax and Runtime), but those look like they all fall under \'93Exception\'94 Errors. and there are many Exception Errors besides Syntax and Runtime.\
\
\ul 5. still don\'92t understand what the difference between a \cf2 \ulc5 Class\cf0 \ulc4  and \cf2 \ulc5 Object\cf0 \ulc4  is\
\
\ulnone 6. what does \'93\cf2 literal\cf0 \'94 mean? in context of:\
\'93SyntaxError: can\'92t assign to literal\'94\
ex. >>> \cf6 \'93story\'94 = f.read()\cf0 \ul \ulc4 \
\ulnone \
}